Revenue
marketing is it B2B marketing fluff or
is it a legitimate marketing
[Music]
strategy welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you want to join thousands of Legends
enjoying our daily newsletter with B2B
marketing tips recent podast episodes
and unusual SEO ideas head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
tab for join me today I've got Freda R&B
Freda is the CMO over at relan Freda
welcome to the show how you doing thank
you thank you I'm doing well super happy
to be here finally we've tried to
schedule this a couple of times but now
it's actually happening back and forth
you've changed roles but we've got it in
the books we're talking Revenue
marketing we're going to be diving in
today to things like Revenue marketing
is it another buzzword or is it an
actionable goto Market strategy we're
going to talk about what it means what
kind of company should be investing it
and what kind of company shouldn't how
it Stacks up to compared to other goto
Market strategies and we'll do a bit of
a Q&A if we get some questions on the
live in between so first and foremost
Revenue
marketing is it another buzzword Freda
or is it a legit Strat to to go to
market for for B2B companies I love the
fact that you included fluff in the
topic today I mean as always uh isn't
that the case always that there's new
words coming along trying to describe
something that maybe has been you know
been around for a while and uh I think
Revenue marketing has actually been
around for a while but it hasn't been
that widely used and it's only uh since
a couple of years ago that it's been
more more commonly used so nowadays I
definitely think about it as not a trend
word or a Fluff word but actually
something that exists uh and I think
also from um the perspective of maybe US
versus Europe uh I think Revenue
marketing has been used as a uh common
word uh or strategic approach maybe more
in for for a longer time uh on the US
side of things than in Europe but I
definitely see that we're starting to uh
apply this uh in European sauce
companies as well okay so I no I
wouldn't say it's a Fluff fluff uh word
but as with any new word uh you have to
sort of be careful uh you know to
explain what it is so it's not used in
the wrong word or wrong way yeah I mean
we'll get into I want to hear your
snapshot in a sec of for anyone that's
not familiar with it what it actually
means but I mean
I've only got a scroll my LinkedIn feed
listen to a B2 marketing podcast that's
not this one and everyone says their
revenue focused the goal is revenue it's
almost like the 2023 2024 marketing
buzzword I feel it's almost in like
almost every LinkedIn post and that I
suppose as a marketer that that should
be your end goal right I mean that's
what the exact
team yeah but has it always then maybe
we have to ask ourselves and maybe we're
I I don't think it has be honest I think
marketing has been around for quite some
time uh and been doing you know a lot of
great things but hasn't necessarily tied
the activities that they have been doing
towards revenue and I think that's the
big shift that we're seeing now maybe
especially within fast growing or maybe
not so so fast growing anyway but
healthy growing companies that it's
important to tie uh marketing to revenue
uh because we need to be able to
optimize and we need to be able to be
cost efficient H and then if you don't
do that it's very hard to prove the
reason for marketing to be so I think
that's that that might Al also be a big
reason why we start to talk about this
more clearly now let's talk about where
perhaps B2B companies have going been
going wrong as you've alluded to just
then in a sec but before we
do what give us a quick snapshot for of
what Revenue marketing actually is my
snapshot would be um looking at
marketing as like first and foremost
looking at marketing as a revenue driver
rather than a cost center that would be
my number one I would say Revenue
marketing is about working in super
super super close collaboration with
sales to attribute all the marketing
activities to revenue and then I would
say it's about being very focused from a
marketing perspective on driving High
intent leads so nothing else but really
highing high buying intent leads and
then you know feeding them straight into
the sales funnel and then I think it's
about aligning sales and marketing to
work towards the same targets that's
fundamental so making sure that the core
of the targets that marketing and sales
look at are the same and for me that's
high intent it's deal created it's sqs
it's Pipeline and it's
AR uh that that's Revenue Marketing in a
nutshell to me and then you can I mean
then you can of course talk about it a
lot around that okay what does it
implies and what does it mean and how do
you work with it but if I if I if I am
to explain it in four sentences that
would be it gotcha so that's Revenue
marketing what's the opposite doing
marketing that doesn't drive any cash
or no but maybe
doing I mean obviously in a company
everything that you do whether you work
in product marketing sales customer
success should drive the growth of the
company uh but if we look back at and I
I'll use the word more traditional
marketing uh where we might have been
more focused on uh okay how do we drive
brand awareness how do we drive customer
engagement how do we drive Customer
Loyalty H how do we drive thought
leadership position uh those activities
and there's a lot of super important
activities to be made around that right
but it hasn't necessarily been connected
to okay what impact that that does it
have on revenue and the bottom line of
any company and and I think that's that
the like the single difference here is
maybe how you measure it and how you
follow up on
it
right okay okay let's let's dive into
some of those four points that you've
just shared and add some more context
before we do a bit of a a step by step
and talk about kind of who this what
kind of company should be doing this
what kind of company shouldn't do it and
how you can put it into play in
Practical terms so first what you
touched on it there marketing as a as a
revenue driver as opposed to a a cost
Center cost center so I I think you
touched on it a little bit there that
the activities should be contributing
towards kind of qualified leads
qualified pipeline that's going to drive
Revenue Drive bottom line but does that
mean that things that you touched on
earlier like brand
marketing doing top of the funnel
marketing whether that's awareness
building Affinity with our company oh
can you still hear me fra no I lost you
for I lost you until now okay have you
got me now yeah I hear you now okay so
marketing as a revenue driver not cost
center does that mean that we should
stop doing things like whether it's
brand marketing kind of top of the
funnel more Awareness stuff um sharing
kind of problems we fix and only focus
on Folks at the bottom of the funnel
kind of ready to have a sales
conversation around our solution now
well what does it
no no no no
no no definitely not I think I mean that
that's back again to the fact that
marketing is all of those things and to
be able to capture demand you need to
First create demand and drive demand and
generate demand and that is done by of
course you know doing all these top
funnel and middle funnel activities and
you know strengthen your pris doing all
this brand awareness it's I mean this is
this is a this is like without a
question it's a no-brainer that nobody
buys from you just because they H you
know we put out a a a Google search ad
that says buy here and you have to start
with actually telling the story around
why you are here and and what value you
contribute with so plain and simple
brand top funnel activities and I think
if we look at Revenue marketing a big
part of that is uh you know different
kinds of demand generation activities
and we all know that brand creates
demand so uh we definitely need to
continue doing a lot of brand activities
to make sure that that drives demand
that we can capture and measure towards
Revenue H and then you have the approach
of Revenue Marketing in
that okay okay let's um we'll go into
that is there something you wanted to
add there
no and I was just thinking because back
to then cost center versus Revenue
driver that I think if you look at it
back in time marketing usually has a
very big part of the overall or sits on
a very big part of the budget in any
company uh and that budget is of course
you know then you make a plan and you
tell the rest of the people in the
organization how how you're going to
spend it uh but as long as it's always
looked upon as a cost center it's very
very easy when you sort of need to
become more cost efficient that you
start cutting in
that in that budget or that cost uh and
then back again to marketing uh is is
then usually uh you know sitting and in
a unfortunate seat because it's very
easy to go in then and cut the cost uh
that marketing has but if you turn that
around and instead constantly can show
that yes we have this big budget uh but
with this bu we drive this amount of
Revenue then it's a way different
approach and it's not as easy to just go
in and cut that budget because you you
you're in a sense or indirectly cutting
Revenue um so proof proof that it can
that marketing budget is going to drive
a a certain amount of Revenue at the end
of it exactly and that's also I think
part of Revenue marketing that it's very
tightly connected to or it it it relies
heavily on data and analyzes that you
constantly have to
show how the activities that you create
uh perform throughout the funnel and how
they actually land in Revenue at the end
of the day H and also then showing that
it actually has a positive Roi uh
because it connected all the way uh and
that is not necessarily always done
within more traditional marketing um and
then it's always going to be harder to
prove their
worth so you're a recent CMO at ran yep
you're a few weeks in I'm 10 weeks in or
maybe still early how much of this stuff
Have you had to do with the rest of the
leadership
team
um everything I mean I would say that's
the reason why I'm here uh because relan
has more or less been working uh based
on a more traditional approach
uh where marketing and sales have been
siloed from each other uh marketing has
done a lot of great activities I'm not
saying anything about that but they
haven't connected it to revenue and
sales and marketing has not at all
worked together uh and more or less
nobody else has been super involved in
what marketing has been doing either and
then it's back again to being very hard
to prove the worth of marketing uh in
any company so what we're trying to do
now
is to turn that around building a very
growth SL Revenue Market focused
marketing team together with a very
obviously growth oriented sales team and
then making sure that we work together
based on the exact same targets and
that's a brand new approach uh at
willan how' you go and go about putting
something like that together like if you
um I'd imagine the rest of the
leadership team are quite bought in if
they've just brought you in as a new
CMO probably quite Keen to let you take
the Reign but or or maybe that's not
right you can tell me otherwise but if
you've got a a leadership team that are
maybe a bit of skeptical and they are on
that side of the fence where they see
marketing as a cost center what are
usually the kind of things where you'd
say well no this is this is how we're
going to utilize the
budget and even perhaps if you haven't
done these channels or these let's say
the strategy that you're to put into
players a revenue marketing strategy
before how would you say to the rest of
your team well no this is what we're
going to do this is our approach and
this is what we expect as an end result
how would you go about kind of
presenting those findings I guess or
having those conversations that's a
difficult one I would say
uh I mean there has to be a it has to be
a certain level of interest to really
understand understand this I think to
start with within the rest of the
management team otherwise you're going
to
have it's going to be a
steep hill upwards but if you do have
some slight interest and they can
actually I mean this is happening all
over the place so I would say that it's
easy to show some examples of what other
companies are doing to say hey we should
also be we should also focus on this uh
but I think it starts with if if you as
a company have a more leads generating
approach uh I think it starts with
showing first uh because usually that's
the case that you might not be able to
connect those leads coming in to what
they actually bring in value and that's
the first step H and then work from
there and say if we change this around
from a more lowi intent leads generating
model to a more High
intent uh leads uh approach uh we will
most likely see lower volume of leads
coming in but the quality of those leads
will be much higher H and they have
closer to um deciding on buying which
means that we should be able to quicker
see them move through the funnel and
becoming uh Revenue at the end uh so I
think you first you need to have an
alignment or an agreement on let's try
this because otherwise if you start
trying this without the alignment or the
agreement first most likely when you see
volume dropping there's going to be you
know Panic like no no no no no go back
to where we were before H and to be able
to prove it the whole way you need the
space and you need a certain amount of
time you know depending on your sales
cycle length to actually prove your case
and and and you need to be able I mean
you have to be given that space and that
time to prove the whole case um so I
think it starts with you know bringing
up other examples of companies that have
done this we should also do this we are
moving from A to B because of uh and
then making sure that you get the time
to prove the rest of the
case makes sense makes sense so it's
almost like analyzing the data that the
company already has like you said there
so if there's I don't know x amount of
demos or sales calls or booked calls
coming in through the website each month
but only a small margin of those are
actually converting into closed business
and Deals yeah and it shows that
something's got to give and you've got
to analyze like what is what's causing
this yeah and that was ex actually the
case in in the really own case that okay
the mar the marketing team here was
doing a lot of great things and
generating a lot of leads no question
about that but then it went into
whatever marketing tools that they were
using at that time right and then okay
what next uh we you know we didn't know
if sale picked it up we didn't know what
sales did with it we didn't know if it
closed anything so what the data really
showed was an array of
activities uh volume of leads and then
question
mark all right so like leads were coming
in but then we didn't know what after
the sales handoff no exactly because
then we also had a problem with the tech
which I think is also a big part of
Revenue marketing
that yeah you have to be in control of
your Tech and you have to make able or
you have to make sure that you have uh a
full view of the customer Journey so
that you can understand the performance
of from the activity to close one so
that's also something that you sort of
have to start with uh when you go into
this approach because otherwise will you
you're up for failure because you're not
going to be able to see the full funnel
and the full customer Journey um and
then it's going to be hard to prove your
case
anyways yeah yeah yeah it's just about
analyzing how things are set up now
working out any gaps or any major
issues and then exactly sharing examples
putting together a case and like you
said also buying yourself some time
because there nothing in marketing is
magic dust unfortunately just yet anyway
I'm yet to see
it I haven't seen it either and and also
make sure that it always takes more time
than you first anticipated so if you can
buy yourself some extra time that's also
very coming very handy yeah um but then
back again to your question I think it's
important to look at uh you know
identifying competences
uh you know what do you have on your
team already uh what resource do you
need in place to be able to um build up
a revenue marketing team and that's also
something that I've en encountered now
that I joined willan that I have a a
great people from the marketing team
that has been here but they have never
ever worked like this like they have
never looked at kpis like this every
week uh but they find it super
interesting and they want to learn and
they want to transition into that but
then you as a CMO first need to identify
okay do I have the right competence on
board to be able to drive this change uh
whether it's you know demand generation
competence Performance Marketing content
SEO all of these
different uh resources or competen it
call it whatever you want needs to you
need to have access to it and then
either you have it in house or you work
with Freelancers or agencies but you
need to sort of map
out the team uh to be able to have
everything or and making sure that you
have everything
covered so is that kind of The Next Step
once you've analyzed the the current
setup of marketing put together this new
strategy that we're diving into and then
assessing what resource you've got right
now and what you may need to add yeah
assessing resources
capacity
assessing or evaluating auditing the Tex
stack yeah
uh you know making sure you have the
capabilities if you use that word for
all of this in
place that's the next step and then the
step after that uh or in parallel would
most likely be uh you know setting up
the process together with sales like
making sure you are aligned on what does
marketing do what does sales do who's
responsible for what and when uh just as
you said before when do you do a
Handover for
example um and then putting up meeting
structure or cadences together with
sales so you constantly look at the
performance and how you're trending or
tracking and then taking joint actions
on it uh and
and before you have that the risk is
that you will continue working in Silas
but as soon as you have that in place it
becomes more of a joint mission that you
know if if you look at the numbers every
week and you see we're not you know
we're not trending according to Target
or we are or there's a gap here what
should we do um it's it's a lot more
easier to set joint actions uh than if
you don't have that kind of meeting
structure in
place so everyone says marketing and
sales should be
aligned but what does that mean
of course they should um it's one of
those fluffy things that you see on
LinkedIn like talk to your customers
marketing and Sal should be aligned and
all that kind of stuff but I'd like to
know because you're actually doing this
yeah from from a tangible point of view
what does that actually
mean I mean I think from
my you know I'm I'm almost allergic to
marketing and sales not being aligned uh
and I think the the reason for that is
that I actually come from sales from the
beginning I worked a lot many years yeah
I worked many years in sales so to me
it's it's a no-brainer like I don't even
understand why we're discussing you know
the lack of alignment um in my world uh
if we don't talk to each other and if we
don't set the same direction and the
same goals and targets there is no way
that we're going to succeed and that it
doesn't only go for marketing and sales
it goes for marketing in product it goes
for marketing in customer success it
goes for all the you know main or core
domains within any business that there
needs to be alignment but especially
since marketing and sales are the
commercial side that are supposed to
drive the growth um based on revenue of
course uh it's fundamental that there's
alignment between the two
and I think if if there's not alignment
what usually usually happens is that
Sales Drive sales are in the driver seat
uh obviously because they bring in the
the cash and then they request things
from marketing that they feel that they
need to be able to bring in more cash uh
and when you have that
relationship then you're back to
marketing being more of a support system
and a yeah request delivering on
requests without any strategy of their
own
um not the the light here in the ceiling
yeah I notic that went off all of a
sudden
um hold on if I can turn this
on oh I just have to wave my fingers
here and then I I was sitting too
still yeah um what was I saying if you
if if marketing becomes just a system
like that then then you're back again to
being regarded as a cost center uh
because you're not connected to growth
and you're not connected to the revenue
in that sense and that that then it
become then we're back 10 years
again yeah yeah yeah um I mean
sales I think uh probably one of the one
of your biggest allies is a marketer
mainly because the conversations they're
having with prospects that haven't yet
bought yet but fit your ICP
all the deals that they've just closed
especially when it comes to it's
marketing 101 like nailing your
messaging these guys or girls are
literally doing the prospecting sitting
on demos calls every day they know the
most common frustrations and problems
your prospects are facing they know the
impact if they don't fix those problems
and they know the desired State the
desired outcome these folks want to get
to which is gold dust for for copy
messaging whether that's on your website
your ads
marketing but also they know they can
they can quickly assess what's a decent
lead and what's not yeah so if they're
speaking to folks like you alluded to
earlier that are really low intent
whether they I don't know downloaded
white paper downloaded a lead magnet saw
a webinar or something that's relatively
low interest they'll know right off the
bat if they're talking to someone and
they're like I can't even remember your
company name or what's this cool about
and it's like you're just wasting
everyone's time so these guys are give
you so much insight into into fueling um
all kinds of marketing things so I think
like you said as well as the points you
rais it there going to be super useful
but interested to know any of the
conversations that you've been having
with your sales team when it comes to
kind of Revenue marketing I.E preps
around defining what makes a sales
qualified lead or putting together
targets or agreeing budgets or anything
like that I'd be curious to know how
that went and what was some of the main
action points that you did or are doing
in the process
of in um okay break it up the first
question
was yeah so I'd be curious to know like
we're talking about Marketing sales
allignment yeah I'd be curious to know
like if you're working with them to
Define what a lead actually is whether
that's mql or
SQL if you're working with them on the
same Revenue numbers and like how those
conversations are actually going yeah
okay to to answer the first question in
terms of what is a lead um May I think
maybe I have
been uh mostly driving that back again
to the fact that what the marketing team
here was delivering before was
definitely low intent
leads uh and I've been very clear since
I joined that I'm not going to talk
about leads at all I don't like talking
about leads and I think it's not
interesting to talk talk about leads in
the sense of big volumes of leads coming
in so we are only talking High intent
leads and what I've done with my team is
more or less educating okay what is a
high intent uh mql H and then we've
Define that together it's of course
booking a demo it's asking for a price
quote it's a asking for a contact or a
consultation and then I think we have
four or five um ctas on the web website
that we defined as a high intent so
that's sort of the first thing that
we've aligned on uh this is only what
we're going to look this is what
marketing is going to focus on driving
and this is only what we're going to try
to optimize and everything else will of
course be taken care of but that's it's
too early uh in the in the journey so
we're not going to bother you with that
yeah did you get much push back against
any of those
points um no not really as and and
that's that's fortunate
because back again to the fact that it's
been frustrations here that marketing on
you know almost haven't understood this
before H and and just as you say if a
bdr or an SDR gets a an inbound and they
realize that this this person has only
downloaded a Content piece like why am I
even calling uh uh and that's the
frustration that that they have been
having like Market has been celebrating
because they made 400 leads coming in
yesterday uh and then nothing of that is
of any value to the sales team um so to
answer your question no no push backs on
that because they were more like finally
yes this
is yes this is the way we want to work
okay like we're happy you understand
it's like yes we
do um and then the other thing in terms
terms of targets that was definitely a
joint you know work or approach as well
uh where we uh put together or set the
the overall company targets uh or
forecast first and then we broke that
down into uh okay what does it mean in
terms of our different markets and what
that s what the sales need to
deliver uh based on Market based on
products and how much should
marketing uh contribute with or
generate um to make sure that we reach
the overall
budget uh one thing that was interesting
though I'm very used to working like
that that you look at the overall
numbers and then you break it down okay
what comes inbound outbound and then
obviously it will be fantastic when you
don't even do that but you actually just
look at it from an allbound perspective
but we're not there yet and what I've
also what also noticed in this process
was was that we were almost getting
into uh okay overall company Targets
this is what sales is going to
deliver uh how can marketing support
sales to deliver this and then
marketing came you know was was was was
last in line sort of so what I needed to
do was you know push up uh the
discussion to marketing needs to be in
the discussion already here when we look
at the overall company targets not last
in line when you've all set the targets
and then it's just for us to say okay we
need to do these leaflets and these be
on on these events because sales are
requesting it uh I think that's also
where you might go wrong if you don't
take the stand and take the discussion
on earlier on or on a higher
level got
it so is it easy to split like it sounds
like your organization for example and I
imagine a lot of tech B2B companies are
similar have like an outbound motion
have a marketing team whether that's
like inbound marketing demand generation
product Le or many of the other routes
to Market is yours quite an even split
between outbound or inbound or marketing
expected to get a ton more kind of uh
what you're moving towards um Revenue
but kind of qualified Ops qualified
opportunities as opposed to to the sales
team or is quite even
split uh between sales and marketing you
mean
yeah
um we don't know that yet to be honest
because we're just getting started but I
think the end goal is definitely some
kind of split
5050 um so if we can get to it it
depends though where you are in your you
know growth motion uh and and you know
what your ACV looks like that in in in
some companies maybe having a
a smaller ACV they might be relying more
heavily on in an inbound motion whether
if you go up market and have a bigger
ACV you might rely heav more heavily on
on a sales Le motion uh or a combination
with product Le and so forth uh but for
us as a company a 5050 split
feels realistic and and and I think
that's where we're going to end up when
we have everything set up and we're
starting to drive these different
motions okay okay um so what kind of
companies are best suited to this motion
and which
aren't that's a good question I was uh
thinking about it before this call I
think it depends
on uh like like with anything there's
pros and cons with anything and I
wouldn't say that just because we now
talk about Revenue marketing that EV you
know Revenue marketing is for every
company out there
uh I'll give you one example when I was
working in the Telco industry for a few
years uh at one of the bigger Telco
providers in the nordics uh the focus
there was much much much more on you
know call it corporate marketing and we
were focusing on or we were measuring on
brand awareness we did you know huge
outdoor
campaigns um we we did you know full
pages in newsletters customer marketing
loyalty uh thought leadership marketing
and we measured the effect on you know
share of the total market share of voice
brand awareness burand perceptions and
all of these things um and that was that
was that that was the right approach for
that kind of comp company at that time
so I think you have to always look at
what kind of company are we uh what
stage are we
at uh and then decide okay what's best
for us right now uh I mean another
example is you might be a product heavy
tech company uh you might still be
trying out your you know trying to find
your product Market fit uh and it might
be critical to find out your positioning
your messaging your
ICP uh you know finding out customer
pains and gains H and all of that and
then product marketing is more likely to
be what you need to focus on uh maybe
before Revenue marketing uh or you are
in a uh sales Le company uh that focus
on outbound sales maybe even founder Le
sales and you realize that this is not
scalable anymore we need something else
we need another growth motion okay maybe
then Revenue marketing is actually the
thing that you need to implement so it
it depends I would say and I think
that's the job you need to do before you
just go out and say you know oh I found
this new bus word Revenue marketing and
we need to implement it because it feels
or it sounds right and everybody else is
doing it if you don't do your own
homework first deciding okay what kind
of company are we and what do we need
right now uh then you're you might be up
for failure just because you didn't do
your homework so yeah there's pros and
cons with everything but it depends on
back again to who are we and what do we
need at this
point it's it's a difficult one isn't it
because there's so much advice out there
when it comes to B B2B marketing like
ditch all your other efforts and go all
in on a demand gen and you need to
create demand out of thin air and only
talk about the problems you fix and
spend all your cash on LinkedIn ads so
then when buyers eventually need your
offer they'll come straight to you but
for many B2B Tech and service companies
that's awful advice because there's so
much demand out there to capture in many
categories that you'd be foolish in my
opinion anyway to neglect capturing that
especially if you're a startup and you
might not have the time to fuel your
sales team and wait six months or so to
create new demand for your offering like
there's some some weird advice I don't
know if you've seen anything similar
around what we're talking about or kind
of when companies defitely shouldn't
take this
approach yeah exactly and I think it's
easy to get stressed by that uh and you
know carried away that we need to do
this and that that everybody else is
doing um but back again
to you know sure look at all these other
companies and take the advices that you
get from from from different angles and
perspectives but then once again go home
and do your own homework and then decide
okay what are we going to focus on as a
company after you assessed the your
marketing setup at rilan you identified
the gaps where you wanted to hit and put
together marketing a revenue marketing
approach did you allow any room for
experimentation I perhaps channels that
you thought were going to work well but
weren't 100% but you had kind of a
hypothesis I I think this channel could
do well based upon our ideal client
profile and what we're trying to do so
I'm going to allow a bit of budget for
this and give it three months six months
or have along yeah super
valid question I think yes so the answer
is yes I'm I'm very much Pro trial and
erroring and you know testing testing
testing and I think that's also a big
part of Revenue
marketing uh and also if you compare it
maybe to traditional marketing it's been
very common that you do these halfe
plans or even yearly plans but with a
revenue marketing approach you rather I
mean you should do maybe maximum
quarterly plans and then work with
constant trial and erroring approach um
so that you can constantly test the
activities that you put out how are they
performing towards Target and then
optimize as you go and if you've set to
clear uh or if you planned and set an
array of activities during a too long
period it's very hard to go back and
then change if you see something not
working so I rather work with shorter
activity cycles and then add on as soon
as you see something working and that
also goes then together with your IP
which I also think is a very important
part not only in in Revenue marketing
but in any marketing domain that you
make sure that you have a super clear
ICP and
Persona that you can test against or
towards um because it can also be the
that that the activities are fine but
the ICP for some reason is not the right
one H and the more you keep it tight and
narrow uh and test based on that it's
more easy
to um you know maybe find the errors and
then optimize uh based on that so yeah
valid question and definitely something
that I preach that TR and you know start
small U scale smart test test test nice
and then more more frequent reviews so
quarterly as opposed to like six monthly
or annual or anything like that yeah
exactly got any examples for of any kind
of strategies that you've done like that
maybe any unusual ones or any ones where
you went in with an idea or you brought
it doesn't necessarily have to be with
this company it could be past companies
you work with where you kind of thought
this is our
ICP I don't think many of our
competitors are doing this but let's
give this a try because I think it'll
get this result any any situations like
that or similar that you've tried in the
past any examples you could share with
us that's a good question
um I mean what we did
do at get accept the last year when I
was there was looking at uh I mean the
ICP and and the Persona that we were
working uh with at get except Revenue
leaders so what we did was that we were
narrowing we were narrowing that down
even further um to be um people working
directly with sales but also for example
revops and sales enablement people so
that was the work we started with
narrowing it down and then we uh
identified
uh you know where do we meet these
people to be able able to build
personal in Real Life Connections and
relationships uh with these people uh
and we identified that we wanted to try
out very small intimate events where we
were sort of the driver of the events we
were hosting the events and we came in
as sort of the thought leader uh
educating them on how to run a more uh
efficient and uh
um what should you say efficient and a
higher quality sales process qualitative
sales process and then we went out we
sort of built the event strategy on that
and gave it uh tested it with a couple
of events during half a year to find out
whether that was a good um call or not
uh and in that case it turned out that
that that was definitely something that
worked and we got a lot of positive
feedback from the personas right away so
we you know quite quickly realized that
we're on to something here how do we
build this out um which we did H and
they're still doing so at get accept
this year too I know um so that was yeah
that that's an example U but we haven't
come that far yet at willan we're we're
still sort of Q we're in Q2 now testing
a lot of different activities and and
then uh so Q2 for us is the test quarter
now to find out what works what doesn't
work and what will we scale during the
the fall well yeah maybe you can come on
next year and say look this went
terribly this went okay this don't do
this do this yeah exactly then everyone
everyone could steal the learnings
lovely yeah
exactly if I save somebody's time sure
you will I'm sure you will um no it
seems like a lot of a lot of tech
companies seem to be working on intimate
events I know kind of podcast was the
buzz like 2021
onwards a lot of lot of B2B tech
companies have got those in play now but
a lot of them seem to be moving into
more intimate like dinners hosted events
that kind of stuff they seem to be
popular and from what you've said it
seems like they can work well and
they're they're put together in the
right setting with the right folks and
the right play yeah it goes back to I
mean events have back again to
traditional marketing events have have
have also have always been uh part of
the overall marketing strategy but what
we've done before it's more big Expos
and fairs and so forth but it it has
been based on of course building real in
real life relationship so the the the
purpose or the idea is the same H but
usually those big fairs and Expos are
extremely expensive and back again then
to revenue marketing is it's very hard
to show a positive Ro why on that but if
you sort of bring it home uh you you
take control of the events you make it
in a smaller setting um it becomes much
more cost efficient it becomes much more
personal and I think people in general
since a while back are looking for more
personal you know
contexts H where they can
actually you know get to know people
really pick people's brains and get
Direct Value out of it than being in
huge situations where they don't
necessarily bring anything with them at
home or bring anything at home with them
with this strategy you just gave me a
light bulb moment there do you
actually it sounds like a lot of this is
about becoming more efficient because I
imagine when you're taking a revenue
Focus strategy and doing all the things
you've shared with us today you might
cut quite a bit so it could be that I
don't know perhaps some companies take
this as a strategy on and they realize
maybe some of the events that they're
doing or they're hosting or they're
attending or putting together aren't
actually driving pipeline that's
converting into one deals or maybe
they're doing other channels I don't
know be paid review sites or elsewhere
and they're thinking well this is
driving a ton of inbounds but these ones
are not very fruitful so you actually
end up reviewing it assessing it cutting
quite a lot and like you say moving into
channels that are sure thing and placing
some new bets and doing some
experimentation like we talked
about yeah it might be I mean it could
be a play like that or at least it's
reallocating it's a reallocating play uh
making sure you actually allocate the
budget to the
activities where you see the impact and
the ROI uh and I mean any company should
be interested in doing that uh so
placing Investments or money where they
actually see better gains so that's an
evalue or an audit and an an evaluation
of itself for sure cool and I think
you're right a lot of companies just
keep on every year attending the same
conferences attending the same expose
that they've
done because I'm not saying that they're
bad these exposer conferences but never
no one has ever questioned what it
actually brings
in other than maybe a feeling like yeah
it was super good you know we talked to
a lot of people I met my old friend from
that company and my contact from that
company H it was as good as always okay
but what did it actually bring in uh and
if you start assessing that and looking
at that you might actually find that
okay let's skip this Expo or let's put
more money into this conf
friends yeah yeah yeah we did um we did
a good episode on the show some time ago
I forgotten the chap surname but Aaron
from a Israeli tech company he gave us a
bit of an event breakdown like how to
maximize your events going have to do
another one soon because we haven't
touched on it much on the show because I
we a lot of folks slate slate events but
then there there's obviously a good play
because so many companies where the ICP
isn't necessarily hanging out on I don't
know LinkedIn or paid review sites or
they're not on us they're not using
Google so much they're using kind of
events to to find the companies that
they're going to redeem trustworthy
enough to gain their business so
certainly as a play there definitely
something I'm gonna dive in onto the the
show soon on future episodes with that
fra we'll wrap up we did have one or two
questions we just I think one of these
we kind of covered someone asked what
are the metrics that Revenue marketing
teams get measured by I think you
touched on some of these I don't know if
you want to give a quick
recap um I would say definitely Ely like
high
intent mqls I would say deals created
from inbound uh marketing contributed
sqs Pipeline and
ARR like five main ones got it and then
I think Chris raposo was was quoting you
he enjoyed one of your quotes at the
start of the Show brand created Dem man
excellent stuff so fra really appreciate
you com on the show thanks for sharing
your wisdom your expertise and what
you're up to as newly appointed CMO over
at willan really appreciate you coming
on and sharing your insights we will
link to your Linked In and toan below is
there anything else we should be guiding
the audience
to um I think the link toon.com would be
super nice uh if anyone's interested in
AP
automation sure thing we'll put all of
those in the show notes of course so
with that thanks very much for coming on
thank you that was fun take care no
worries and as always if you enjoy
today's episode you can catch many more
on our daily newsletter where we share
all past podcast episodes unusual B2B
marketing and SEO tips you can check it
out breaking bb.com and hit that
newsletter tab want to thank you the
audience for tuning in and we'll catch
you on the next one
[Music]